
Fri Dec 14 20:49:06 2018: Request 100500 was acted upon.
 Transaction: Queue changed from 0-Help to 0-SDSC by carmanh
       Queue: 0-SDSC
     Subject: XUP: Comet Trial Allocation
       Owner: carmanh
  Requestors: trb@chem.ucla.edu
      Status: open
 Ticket <URL: https://tickets.xsede.org/Ticket/Display.html?id=100500 >


[Ticket created from XUP by trb7448]
[From: Tyler Benton]
[System: Comet]
[Category: Trial Account]
Hello, 

I am a researcher at UCLA who has been working closely with other researchers who have previously and currently utilized XSEDES resources achieving highly successful results. Specializing in Chemistry, I have been tasked with a goal of performing computational chemistry benchmarks involving quantum mechanics (QM), quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics (QM/MM) and molecular dynamics (MD) calculations. Using Gaussian 09, Gaussian 16, and ORCA 4.1, I will perform a variety of calculations, modeling kinetics, thermodynamics, long-range interactions, and high accuracy electronic structure calculations, in addition to a small amount of molecular dynamics studies. Some specific aims are to asses the most commonly used DFT methods in the field and compare them to more recently developed, state of the art double-hybrid and coupled cluster methods. Additionally, I plan to evaluate the new promising low cost, yet reportedly very accurate range of functionals of the new 3-correction seri
 es, such as PBEh-3c and B97-3c. Some of these calculations will not be performed in this trial such as the coupled cluster method calculations, whose results will be used from prior calculations and benchmarks.

The more important goal of this benchmark study is to evaluate the computational efficiency of the commonly used methods, as well as optimize the appropriate calculation inputs and set up procedures. Recently, it has been my observation that computational resources are not used as wisely as they should be and user-friendly computational chemistry programs such as Gaussian increasingly encourage users to not think before they submit. Allocations of processors and memory per job are often arbitrarily set to the same values for every calculation a user performs or used in inefficient ratios that often leads to the majority of processors left unused yet reserved for the duration of the calculation.

It is my hope to use the results gained from this benchmark in an attempt to discourage excessive resource waste through the demonstration of broadly applicable uses and education of proper input creation, set up, and execution. This will also include informing users on how to monitor their jobs and usage, examine the requested vs actually used resources, and how to make smart adjustments to increase efficiency. To accomplish this I plan to provide small local workshops, advise researchers independently, and potentially make the information available publicly online to reach a much wider audience. 
The trial Comet of up to 1000 SU's would be more than sufficient to accomplish what I need. If accepted, this side project would also provide me with a great excuse to exercise my mind over the holidays if family obligations become too exhausting.

Thank you for your consideration,

Tyler Benton
UCLA 
