
Thu Jun 14 10:39:12 2018: Request 89996 was acted upon.
 Transaction: Queue changed from 0-Help to 0-SDSC by hthta
       Queue: 0-SDSC
     Subject: XUP: Drop impact problem using Gerris
       Owner: hthta
  Requestors: asaha@princeton.edu
      Status: new
 Ticket <URL: https://tickets.xsede.org/Ticket/Display.html?id=89996 >


[Ticket created from XUP by guest]
[From: Abhishek Saha]
[System: Comet]
[Category: Trial Account]
I plan to submit proposal on using Gerris (http://gfs.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Main_Page) to solve droplet impact problems. Each of these simulations are expected to need about 1000 CPU hours.
before submitting the proposal I want check if I can run gerris on this prticular machine.


Summary of the project is below:

Drop impact on a liquid surface is ubiquitous in many industrial applications, spanning from spray coating, inkjet printing, to internal combustion (IC) engines, in which the impact outcome plays a critical role in affecting the subsequent processes and the performance. For example, for thermal spray coating, the efficient merging of the drop with the predeposited film is highly desired to ensure a uniform and controlled coating and to minimize loss of the coating material. On the other hand, in IC engines, the fuel is sprayed into the combustion chamber and is expected to burn out inside the chamber. Inevitably, however, some fuel drops, especially the larger ones and/or those within the spray core, can survive the hot environment and make their way to deposit on the engine wall. This is highly undesirable as it leads to pollutant generation because of the lower temperature at the wall. The prevention of the subsequent accumulation of fuel drops on the wetted engine wall is 
 critical for engine operation and can be facilitated by drop bouncing. Thus, it is important to recognize the conditions under which bouncing or merging occurs and to understand the transition criteria for optimized performance. In addition, the liquid properties for the coating materials, printing materials, or fuel can exhibit large variations in the collision response, including its density, surface tension, and viscosity, which should also be accounted for.
In the proposed project, the problem of drop impact on a liquid film would be simulated using open source code Gerris. In the proposed study we would investigate role of film thickness, rheological properties of the liquid on the impact outcome and post-impact dynamics. Gerris has already been proven to be useful for such studies and it has been tested in many HPC systems for scalability. 
