
Tue Jul 17 16:29:07 2018: Request 91878 was acted upon.
 Transaction: Queue changed from 0-Help to 0-SDSC by carmanh
       Queue: 0-SDSC
     Subject: XUP: Help installing necessary software
       Owner: carmanh
  Requestors: cjanaya@umich.edu
      Status: open
 Ticket <URL: https://tickets.xsede.org/Ticket/Display.html?id=91878 >


[Ticket created from XUP by cjanaya]
[From: Carlos Anaya Ramirez]
[System: Comet]
[Category: Software]
Hello, 

I recently received a startup allocation with XSEDE for SDSC Comet, and I would like to get some help getting started. In order to run the computational models required for our research, I need to use software that is not listed in the available modules list through Comet. Our workflow utilizes the NEURON v7.4 software package within the python v2.7 programming environment to run our simulations. Below is a summary of the software needed to run our simulations:

- NEURON: The NEURON simulation environment is a program used to create computational models of neurons and quantify their behavior. NEURON v7.4 is free and available through source code so it can be installed in any linux machine. Would I be able to get this software installed on Comet? If so, would you be able to help me with the installation process on Comet? Also, how would this software be installed on Comet? Would it be globally so that I can load it in as a module, or would it be more local for my own use? 

- Python: The python version available through the supported modules in Comet (v2.7.10) will work for our purposes. Our simulations need to have access to scientific modules within python, numpy and scipy, to run. I notice in the ‘Comet User Guide’ that these modules are available for intel compilers. Just to confirm with you, when running jobs and I specify the compiler to be used, I will be able to load in these modules on a python script as long as I use the appropriate compiler?

I would greatly appreciate help with getting started on Comet. Thank you in advance. 

Best,
Carlos Anaya 
