
Fri Dec 14 14:11:42 2018: Request 100480 was acted upon.
 Transaction: Queue changed from 0-Help to 0-SDSC by hthta
       Queue: 0-SDSC
     Subject: XUP: Request for trial allocations with GPU
       Owner: hthta
  Requestors: kaw130@eng.ucsd.edu
      Status: new
 Ticket <URL: https://tickets.xsede.org/Ticket/Display.html?id=100480 >


[Ticket created from XUP by kkew]
[From: Kaiwen Wu]
[System: comet-gpu.sdsc.xsede]
[Category: Trial Account]
I'm a 2nd year CS Master student a UCSD. I'm doing research on automatic dolphin tracking from videos using deep network. The cluster allocated to the lab (or computation resources by other means which I don't know the details) is somewhat crowded and is not always available. I heard from my advisor that there's computational resource here. He suggested that I need to submit an abstract that describe my research.

I browsed the description of "trial", "startup", "education", "campus champion" allocations and it seemed that "trial" is the only one that's eligible for me. That's why I'm submitting this ticket. However, I'm not sure whether it's the right place because I can't find where to submit the abstract. I'll put the abstract here:

--- Abstract
Video surveillance of captivated animals is an important approach to analyze animal behavior, which benefits research in biology, animal cognitive intelligence, etc. Animal analysis traditionally requires researchers to manually annotate the videos. However, it takes extraordinary time and effort to annotate; even the training period for each volunteer takes almost a year. Recently, with the breakthrough in computer vision, automatic video annotation becomes more feasible than before. This research aims to track dolphins using state-of-the-art computer vision technique, e.g. deep network, in videos acquired from Brookfield zoo.
--- End of abstract

Resources I need to run the deep net:
- 12GB GPU memory (for one GPU or for multi-GPU in total)
- 800GB disk storage (500GB dataset + 300GB deep network configurations, weights, experiment results, etc.)
- At least 24 hours of successive runtime

Thank you so much! 
